Hey I'm Nicholas Gjuraj our group did graduate
student admission predictions.
So our visualization, it's based off
of a data set of about 500 students with
information pertaining to their
admission, things like their GRE and
TOEFL scores, University rating, statement
of purpose, letter of recommendation on
the scale of one to five, cumulative GPA
research as a binary value,
and a chance of admission from zero to
one.
So as you can see on the left we have
students binned together by similar
acceptance chances and on the right we
have a scatter plot to compare scores
against each other so we can see
correlation between certain things. So we
can see between test of English as a
foreign language and GRE there's a
positive association between students
who perform well on
one tend to perform well on the other, and
we can highlight students to see other
attributes about them
so like but whenever we hover over
students in the bar graph like there
are four students with a very low
acceptance chance and they also have a
low TOEFL and GRE scores, so perhaps
there's some correlation going on there.
But hovering over students helps
and the
having the color-coded accepted versus
not accepted also helps because we
can isolate certain students so we can
see this student has a pretty low TOEFL
and a pretty low GRE but they still got
accepted and we can look and see, oh they
have a high GPA and their University
rating is pretty weak so maybe that's
why they got accepted. so how about we
look now for cumulative
GPA against chance of admission to see
if that's a really strong correlation
since he got accepted or she got
accepted. And as you can see there's a
very positive correlation between the
two, and this kind of exploratory
analysis and isolating certain students
with the bar graph on the left and
looking at the correlation is how you
use our visualization.